Welcome to session 157 on
Mac OS X and localization.
I think it's probably about that time
on this Thursday afternoon where you're
all thinking of going to the beer bash,
so we'll try to make
this short and sweet.
My name is Chris Hansten.
I work in the localization and
integration group here at Apple.
In just a couple of minutes,
we're going to bring Mike up here,
one of our engineers,
and he's going to discuss some of the
APIs that we've developed and how to make
your software work well for localization.
But before we do that,
I want to say just a couple of words on
why we think localization is actually a
very strategic thing and something you
should consider for all of your products.
So, now Apple has always considered
localization very strategic and
very important to our business.
And that first line up there on
that slide says all you really
need to hear about why that is.
It makes it very obvious.
Approximately one half of Apple's
computers are sold outside the U.S.
That's 50% of course of the market
for your applications as well.
So, now there's no way we can position
ourselves in the market this way and
sell all these Macs overseas without
significant investment in high quality
localization of our system software.
In fact,
this is so important to us that we do,
we go to great lengths to deliver
our operating system software
and CPU software virtually
simultaneously with the U.S.
product.
Now, with Mac OS X,
we want to do this even better.
And we've put some capabilities in
our operating system that should make
this easier both for us and for you.
[Transcript missing]
For example, multiple localizations
can now be packaged and
included in a single product,
which cuts down significantly on the
overhead in delivering localized product.
As well, alternatively,
a language add-on for your app can
be easily packaged and delivered as,
say, a web download.
And this allows you some flexibility
in doing your scheduling around
localization and scheduling,
you know, vis-a-vis your US product.
So these sorts of things are
possibilities generated by these
APIs and these capabilities in the OS.
Now, as you can see,
we're very excited ourselves to use these
capabilities within our own products.
And we want to encourage all of you
to do that as well in your products.
So to do that,
let's get straight to the fun
stuff and have Mike come up here
and give some demonstrations and
describe these technologies to you.
So, Mike.
Chris Hansen: Is my mic live?
Okay, there it is.
I want to talk to you just a
bit about localization on OS X.
And what we're going to cover
is basically what you need to
be thinking of to produce an
application that's localizable,
and then how the core foundation
frameworks help you in your code to
deal with these issues and to build
an application which is localizable.
And then finally,
we're going to look a little bit
about how Project Builder supports
this in the development cycle.
First of all,
let's look a little bit about
delivering localized applications.
The old way,
a separate application for each language.
You have to have multiple SKUs,
multiple boxes, packaging,
all this stuff.
And you also then,
if you want to have multiple
languages supported,
have to have multiple copies
of that app on the system.
So it's not very good for a multi-user
situation where you might have some
people using your application who want
to run it in one language and some other
people who want to run it in another.
What we want to move towards is one
of the two second possibilities here.
Either you simultaneously ship
your application that contains
all of the localizations together.
Now this would be ideal,
but we recognize that it's
not always totally practical.
Not everybody can spend the
effort to actually produce all
the localizations before they
actually can sell one of them.
We don't force you to do this,
but it's totally possible.
The other option is you just
ship localizations as you finish
them after you ship the main app,
but all they are is add-ons.
It's not a whole other
copy of the application,
and the installation ends up
merging the new localizations into
the app that the user already has.
Now, what I want to demo first,
if we can get the demo
machine up on the display,
is just what it means for an
application to be multiply localized.
You've probably seen this
panel in a few other talks.
This is the
International Preferences panel.
And this list here is basically, for me,
the person who's logged
into this machine,
what's the preferred
ordering of languages for me?
And, okay,
so I might want to see English, you know,
primarily.
And if I launch an application, you know,
we can see that it comes up in English.
Okay, easy enough.
You've probably seen that.
But what if I reordered this
list and say that I'd like to see
French first if it's available?
Well, now, you know,
it comes up in French when
I launch this application.
These preferences are per user,
so if you have multiple
users that use the machine,
they all get their own
list of ordered languages.
Somebody might want to
see Japanese instead.
The app launches in Japanese.
This is the same app recognized, right?
But it's just that depending
on what my preferences are,
it's going to pick the
localization that's appropriate.
All right,
so that's the end of the first demo here.
We can go back to the slides.
So, all right, first of all,
what does it mean to be localizable?
Localizable is different from localized,
right?
Localizable means that it's possible
to localize this application,
right?
The developer can easily produce
a localizable application.
You know,
they don't have to speak any languages
other than their native language.
They can still produce an
application that can be translated.
And that's what you should be
shooting for as a developer.
You should build an application
that could be translated,
even if you don't plan
to do it right now.
Because later, you might want to do that.
And if it's localizable,
it'll be very easy to do that.
You won't have to rev your code at all.
You just have to send your
resources off to some translator,
who will then translate it
into the target language,
send it back to you,
you put it in the app,
and it all just works.
What the developer has to be
aware of is not necessarily issues
specific to any language or region,
but just general issues that
have to do with localizability.
So you want to have your code
deal with strings in a way that's
flexible enough that it's going to
work for strings in any language.
Carstar is no good, right?
You want to use something else.
We'll get into how that is
supported in Core Foundation.
You want to look at the same
issue with regard to file formats.
Don't use ASCII in your file
format if you can help it.
Use something that can
represent more languages.
You want to deal with text input issues.
So not all languages are as simple
and easy to type as English.
Typing Japanese can be very complex
because there are so many different
characters and you're not going to have
a keyboard with 50,000 characters on it.
So you have to have some sort of
input method that lets users type
in arbitrarily complex languages.
You also have to be aware of things
like differing formats for dates
and numbers and so on and so forth,
and even potentially differing
formats of various hardware
standards that are available in
different areas of the world.
And then finally,
and what people always think
about sort of first when you
think about localization is,
you have to make sure that all of
your interface and all of the other
resources that might be different
for different languages can be.
Let's look at how
Core Foundation actually
helps you to achieve this.
We won't go through all of
the things that I just listed,
but we'll cover most of them here.
Some of the main classes, I'll call them,
even though they're not
really in core foundation,
which help you with this sort of
thing are CFString and CFCharacterSet.
Those help you deal with strings
in a way that will not limit
you to a particular script.
CF Property List and CF XML Parser.
These are options for file formats that
will be totally internationalizable.
And then CFBundle,
which is really a very central
piece of the system on Mac OS X.
And in addition to all the
other things that it does,
it helps make sure that you're
going to get the right versions
of your localizable resources when
the user runs your application.
If you use CFBundle properly,
you won't have to worry about the
user's preferred language order.
It'll all just work.
So what about strings?
CFString should be used as much
as you possibly can in your app.
Use it instead of Carstar everywhere
in your internal representations.
Avoid converting it to Carstars or
Pascal strings whenever you can.
CFStrings are Unicode strings.
So Unicode can represent text in
almost any language in the world,
right?
Maybe any language.
No, OK, almost any language at least.
And when you do have to actually
deal with other character encodings,
CsString also provides
conversion facilities.
So, okay, here are a few tips for
dealing with strings.
First of all,
the Unicode spec is fairly complicated,
and to correctly handle Unicode strings,
there are a lot of details.
Unless this is your domain of expertise,
you probably don't want to
get involved in these details.
So let CFString do it.
Avoid going through a string
character by character.
In Unicode,
there's almost always an infinite number
of ways that basically the same semantic
content could be represented in a string.
There's different forms you can
use that basically don't go through
character by character doing
comparisons because it's not going
to necessarily be the right thing.
So use built-in character sets.
The CF Character Set class allows you
to test for membership in certain sets.
There are a bunch of predefined sets.
So you can say,
is this particular character a letter?
Is it a number?
Is it white space punctuation?
Is this a diacritic mark?
There's all kinds of built-in sets.
So if you need to figure out for
a particular character sort of
what class this character is in,
you can use CF Character Set.
You can also use the built-in
support for collation and comparison.
So to do locale correct
sorting or string comparison.
Remember I said that there's various
different ways that you could
represent the same string in Unicode.
If you compare them byte for byte,
two strings that are really the same
semantic content might look different.
If you use the comparison
functions in Core Foundation,
they should look the same.
And also,
if you're looking for substrings,
this is sort of a sub-point of the
whole comparison and collation thing.
If you're looking for substrings
within a bigger string,
use the APIs in Core Foundation.
Now, unfortunately,
not every API in the world
is based on CFString.
Not even every API in Mac OS X currently
has CFString APIs to deal with it.
So sometimes you're going to have
to convert to some other encoding.
CS String provides the facility
to convert back and forth between
CarStars or Star 255s and CS Strings.
But this is an area where you're going
to have to kind of pay attention,
right?
Not every encoding can support
all of the characters in Unicode.
If, you know, ASCII could support all
the characters in Unicode,
you wouldn't need Unicode.
So if you're going to be
converting to some encoding,
you have to be aware that a
particular CFString might have
stuff in it that just cannot be
converted to a particular encoding.
In areas where you have
to do these conversions,
just make sure that you're
aware of these issues.
So here's a few selected methods
for CFString and CFCharacterSet.
You can create a string from
bytes of a particular encoding.
So that's the way that if you
had a car star that you knew
was in a particular encoding,
or maybe a star 255 or whatever,
you can create a CFString from that,
converting the string,
whatever encoding it's in,
into the internal representation.
Now, it's not always going to blow
the thing up into full Unicode,
but conceptually,
you can think of it that way.
The opposite of that is CFStringGetBytes.
You can use that to extract
a representation of a
CFString in a given encoding.
And this is one because not
all encodings can represent
all strings that might fail,
and you have various
options to figure that out.
You can compare strings with
CFString compare with options.
You can find substrings with
CFString find with options.
And then I mentioned character
sets a little bit earlier.
You can get the predefined ones
using CFCharacterSetGetPredefined.
There are a bunch of constants
in the header file for that class
which basically list the various
predefined sets you can ask for.
And then once you have a character set,
you can test whether any individual
character is a member of that set with
the CF character set is character member.
File formats.
Again,
the same sort of issues with strings.
You don't want to pick a file
format that's not rich enough to
express international content.
Don't tie yourself to
limited string encodings.
While I'm mentioning it,
don't tie yourself to
a specific platform.
This is mostly sort
of endian-ness issues.
Make sure that you take
that into account as well.
Use a standard format
if it's appropriate.
So XML is a standard format
that's a particularly good
choice here because XML is either
stored in Unicode or in UTF-8,
which is another representation
that is just as rich as Unicode.
Core Foundation has support
for dealing with XML.
For simple and small sets of data,
you can use CF Property List,
an extremely simple API for serializing
and deserializing graphs of data objects
like dictionaries and arrays and strings.
For more complex stuff,
you can use the CF XML Parser,
which is a full XML parser that
you can use to write XML of
whatever format you want.
So here's a couple of examples.
The property list stuff is very simple.
You just hand it a data object,
and it'll give you back the original
graph of objects that you used
to create it in the first place.
You can then take that graph
of objects and hand it to
CF Property List Create XML,
and it'll hand you back a
data with the XML in it.
The parser,
these are the entry points for the
simple entry points for the XML parser.
There's lots of options.
There's also a more complex API.
We're not going to get into that.
But just so you know,
Core Foundation does have
support for XML parsing.
This doesn't really relate
to Core Foundation so much,
but it's another big issue.
You need to deal with text input.
The way that you deal with text input
is actually a little bit different
for the Carbon and the Cocoa stack.
In Carbon applications,
all the controls are
pretty much ready to go.
So if you're using appearance
controls for those things,
you should be fine.
For larger text,
Instead of using the
older TextEdit Manager,
consider using the
multilingual TextEdit Manager,
which is Unicode-based and
can deal with these things,
and it also can have more
than 32K of text in it.
And if you're writing
your own text system,
you can integrate with
the Text Services Manager,
which is basically the
sort of lower-level input
management API for Carbon.
On the Cocoa side, well,
the Cocoa text system is used for
all of the text drawing in Cocoa.
And the Cocoa text system
is fully Unicode aware.
And it also,
it automatically integrates with the text
services manager to do input management.
And so basically for
99% of your Cocoa needs,
just use the text system.
If you're writing your own text
system for whatever reason,
you can implement the
text input protocols.
Those automatically integrate
with TSM and they allow you to,
if you're doing your own
text entry management,
take full advantage of the
input management facilities.
Okay.
So here's where we're going to
spend a fair amount of time,
is talking about resources and bundles.
Resources.
Well, OK, the term is a little bit
overloaded these days.
Resources,
when we talk about resources on Mac OS X,
there's kind of two kinds.
There's bundle resources,
which are just basically files
that live inside of a bundle,
and there's resource manager resources,
which are the traditional
sort of Mac OS 9 resources.
CFBundle provides a way to
deal with both of these things.
And it also provides the structure
for dealing with localization.
And it knows the proper way to search for
resources that may be locale-specific.
Inside of a bundle,
The localized resources are
segregated into their own areas,
what we call lproj folders.
We'll actually see some
of that in a moment.
I want to talk a little bit about the
difference between regions and languages.
A region actually includes
both a language and a location.
There's the English that we
speak here in the United States.
There's the English that
they speak in England.
There's the French that
is spoken in France,
and there's the French that's
spoken in Canada.
We can localize by region,
so you can actually provide different
variants for French-Canadian
and for France-French.
Or you can just do it by language.
Or you can do it by a combination.
So let's say that for the most part,
all your resources are the same,
whether people are in
Canada or in France,
but there's a small subset that
actually have to be specific.
You can put most of them into
language localization areas,
but put just the small set
into the regional areas,
and we'll take care of all that for you.
Oh, I should mention,
the region names are actually
the ISO standard region names,
so like EN underbar
US and so on and so forth.
Language names,
mostly for compatibility reasons,
are OpenSTEP style language names,
which are typically English versions
of language names like English,
French, Japanese.
So it's German, not Deutsch,
even though if you were going
to display it in the UI,
it would be Deutsch.
I'm not going to go through
this slide in any great detail.
You can find this picture in the
system overview manual if you
want to go through it in detail.
My point for showing this slide
is just to impress upon you
that you're better off letting
CFBundle find the resources for you.
Because otherwise,
these are the places that you have to
look and the steps you have to go through
to make sure that you're going to get the
right version for the user's preferences.
So I don't know if this is
readable at all from back there,
but basically we're going to go
off and look in all the appropriate
places for these resources,
and the first place we find it,
that's the one that we're going to use.
I spoke a little bit about the
difference between resource manager
resources and bundle resources.
Just to hit on that again,
the resource manager resources
are the ones that are typically
found in the resource fork of
an application on Mac OS 9.
Bundle resources, on the other hand,
are just files that go
inside your app wrapper.
And as I mentioned,
CFBundle deals with both of these,
and both of them can be
either global or localized.
So resource manager resources,
we're trying to get away from relying
on the resource fork because we want
to be volume format independent.
And also, there's only one resource
fork in your application,
but we need several places to be
able to store these resources so that
you can have multiple localizations.
So instead, we put resource manager
resources into the data fork.
It's the same format that you
used to find in the resource fork.
It's just in the data fork of separate
files that go inside the app wrapper.
The resource manager resources
are actually stored in files,
which are themselves bundle
resources of the bundle.
We separate out the resource manager
resources that don't need to be
localized from the ones that do,
so you don't have to ship multiple
copies of the stuff that doesn't change,
only multiple copies of
the stuff that does change.
Now, CFBundle has API to open the
resource manager resource forks
and put them onto the chain,
the resource chain in Carbon.
And it correctly deals with opening both
the global and the localized resources.
For the localized ones,
it correctly deals with finding the right
version for this user's preferences.
Carbon automatically calls this API when
your app launches for your application,
so you don't have to worry about that.
Just like on Mac OS 9,
your resource fork was already
open for you when your app started.
For frameworks or for plugins,
you can use this bundle API to
cause the frameworks or the plugins
resource manager resources to be
added to the Carbon resource chain.
Bundle resources, again,
just files inside the bundle.
The API on CFBundle, basically,
you ask for a resource by name,
we give you back the URL of that resource
where it resides inside the bundle.
Don't go groping around inside the
bundle to try to find them yourselves.
Because again,
that picture is very complex.
Once you've found the URL that locates
this resource inside the bundle,
you use whatever API is appropriate for
the kind of file that you're looking for.
So, you know, if it's a TIFF file,
you're going to go off and
use a TIFF library to open
up that image and parse it.
If it's, you know, an RTF file,
you're going to go and tell, you know,
some RTF editor to open it or whatever.
Now, there's one kind of bundle
resource that's handled kind
of specially by CFBundle,
and that's strings files.
And I want to kind of--
You can spend a little time talking
about strings files because for
the Carbon folks in the room,
this is, I think,
one of the first kind of bundle
resources that you might want to
look at moving some of your resource
manager resources to use instead.
If you're using
Resource Manager resources
to do string localization,
I guess there's the STR number
resources and so forth.
Okay, fine,
but those are not necessarily the
easiest things in the world to maintain,
and you have to compile them with
res and all this other stuff.
Strings files provide a nice,
easy way to do that same thing.
And so I anticipate
that Carbon developers,
if they want to get started using
some bundle resources instead,
this might be the first thing
that you're going to do.
Any user-visible strings
obviously should be localizable.
And strings files are basically
key-value pairs stored in Unicode
in a plain text file-- well,
a plain Unicode text
file-- inside your bundle.
And CFBundle actually has
specific API that you can use
to locate these strings files,
open them up, cache their contents,
fetch strings out of them for
the particular localization
that's appropriate.
The developer tools also have support
for helping you to even generate these
strings files just from your code.
So there's a command line
tool called genstrings in DP4.
This is not integrated into the
project builder bank process,
but it will be eventually.
And what this tool does is it just
sort of goes through all your code,
looking for places where you're
looking up localized strings,
and then it spits out skeleton
strings files that contain
all the keys that you're ever
going to look for in your code.
you go in and just fill in the values.
Oh, you know what?
One more thing I want to
mention with the strings files.
CFString has sort of printf-like
APIs so you can use format strings
and format arguments into them.
With strings files,
we actually have support,
and with CFString itself,
we have support for argument reordering.
So if you have two arguments that
in English are in this order,
but in Japanese they
need to be in this order,
no problem.
That can all be done.
All right,
so here's some of the API for CFBundle.
For actually locating bundles,
you can easily get hold of the bundle
that contains the application that's
running with CFBundle Get Main Bundle.
If you're a framework or a plugin
and you want to locate the bundle
for that framework or that plugin,
you can use CFBundle,
get bundle with identifier.
You can basically assign a
unique identifier to each bundle.
And then if in that bundle's code,
you can look it up by that identifier.
You can make sure that
you get the right bundle.
You don't have to know where it
lives on the disk or anything
as long as your code is running.
You know that it's loaded into
the app and you'll be able to find
that bundle by its identifier.
The Info.plist of a bundle
contains a bunch of metadata.
We're not going to talk
too much about that,
but you can use CFBundle.get.info
dictionary to get the whole
Info.plist dictionary.
Some of the values in the
Info.plist dictionary actually end
up being localized a lot of the time,
and they get localized in a separate
file called Info.plist.strings.
You can use CFBundle.get.value.for.info
dictionary key to look up specific
values from the info dictionary.
That API will actually look
into localized stuff first.
If you have, say, a CFBundle.name key,
which is what Carbon uses to display the
name of the application in the menu bar,
You want that to be localized, obviously,
so you can use CFBundle.getValue for
info dictionary key to get that string
and make sure that it gets it out
of the localized data if it's there,
otherwise out of the global data.
You can use CFBundleCopyResourceURL to
find bundle resources inside the bundle.
Again, you just give it the name.
We'll go out and look for it
inside the bundle and return
you the appropriate one.
Open Bundle Resource Files is
the one that you can use in a
framework or a plugin to open
up the Resource Manager resource
files inside of a bundle.
CF Copy Localize String is one of these
functions that we have for specifically
dealing with these strings files.
You just give it a key and it
will go find the strings file,
look that key up, and return it to you.
And these localized strings functions
are also the thing that that GenStrings
tool looks for when it's automatically
generating strings files for you.
Okay, next demo.
So we get the demo machine
back up on the screen.
I want to show just briefly,
and I know that this has been
shown a couple times before,
so bear with me if you've seen it,
what the insides of
the bundle looks like.
We have a little secret shortcut here
to actually go inside of a bundle,
which is usually shown
opaque in the finder.
Let's put that in list mode.
The only thing that's in the top
level of a bundle is typically
this contents directory.
Inside that, we have the info P list,
which again is this
metadata about the bundle.
There's been more info on
that in other sessions,
so I'm not going to go into that.
And the package info, which again,
you may have heard some about,
but we won't be talking about.
The actual binary for the application
lives inside of a folder named after
the platform it's supposed to run on.
You might have another folder
in here called Mac OS Classic,
which would contain the binary
for Mac OS 9 if you had a
separate binary for Mac OS 9.
Then what we're really interested
in here is the resources directory.
All the plain files that
you see in this directory,
those are the global resources,
the ones that don't need to be localized.
I don't need to localize the
icon file for this application.
It doesn't have any text in it,
and it doesn't need to be localized,
so it sits here.
One that deserves special mention,
perhaps, is this guy.
This is the DataFork file that
contains the resource manager
resources for this application,
which are global.
So these are the ones that
don't need to be localized.
Now all the localized resources go
inside these Lproj directories that
I talked about a little bit earlier.
You can see that we have
four localizations here,
one for English, one for French,
one for German, and one for Japanese.
The contents of these
directories is always identical,
or should always be identical.
Basically,
you need a copy of each and every
one of these localized resources
for each language or region
that you're localizing for.
So we have the credits file in French,
and we have the credits file in English,
and we have all the various
interface builder files.
We have a standard strings file
that is going to be localized.
This one is the resource manager
resources for this application,
the localized ones.
So you notice we have a copy in here,
and we have a copy in here.
And again, when you use the bundle APIs,
the appropriate one is going to get
opened and put onto your resource chain.
So, okay, pretty simple.
And, uh...
Oh, the localized plist would also
go into the lproj folders in a
file called Info.plist.strings,
I believe.
So that's just another strings file,
but it has a special name so that we
know that it's the one for the plist.
And it just goes in the lproj with
the rest of the localized resources.
OK, that's the end of this demo.
You can see what the
structure of the bundle is.
You should never have to mess with that.
Project Builder knows
how to build bundles,
and we're going to get
into that right now.
So Project Builder, the new development
environment for Mac OS X,
has full support for building bundles,
for building multiply
localized applications,
for managing all the details that
you need to have taken care of
when you're dealing with multiply
localized Mac OS X bundles.
So we know how to build
the bundle disk structure.
You shouldn't involve yourself in that
if you can avoid it at all because,
well, you know,
we know how to do that and
you shouldn't necessarily have
to also know how to do that.
We let you localize the InfoP-List data.
We let you localize
your bundle resources.
We let you localize your
resource manager resources,
all of that.
So Project Builder has target
types that represent applications,
frameworks,
and bundles or loadable plug-ins.
All of these basically end up building
bundles of one flavor or another.
Each of these targets
basically constructs the bundle
automatically as it builds.
And the build system knows where
to put all the various pieces.
Then, as I think I had mentioned,
actually, Project Builder has full
control for managing what's
in your info P list as well.
For the resources,
the target model in Project Builder
is that we have these build phases.
And so, you know,
we're going to go through and for
the target we build each build phase.
And so there's build phases that
will compile your source code.
There's build phases for frameworks
that will copy your headers into
the frameworks header directory.
There's build phases that will copy
your bundle resources into the bundle.
There's a build phase that will run res
or res merge on all your .r or your .rsrc
files and put those into the bundle.
And so this is how Project Builder
deals with building things.
And the build phases that do bundle
resources and resource manager
resources know about localization.
X.
Now within the IDE,
we also help to enforce some of
the requirements for CFBundles.
One of those requirements is that
A resource has to be either
global or localizable.
You shouldn't have a file in your
Lproj directory and also have it
at the top level of the resources.
If you do, the global one is the only
one that will be found.
That seems a little backwards.
The reason that's done
is for performance.
You're not supposed to have them both.
If you do have them both,
the first one we look
for is the global one,
because we only have to
look in one place for that.
We also make sure that whatever the
development language of your project is,
you have to have a full
set of resources for those.
You should have a full set of resources
for any other regions that you support,
but if you don't,
for a particular resource,
we'll fall back on the
development region version.
And that's why you have to have
a development region version.
That means that we'll always
be able to find at least one
version of this resource.
And then for the platform-specific stuff,
we require that there be a generic one
if you have any platform-specific ones.
And that's just in case, say,
another platform was to be
supported at a later date.
If you only had platform-specific ones,
which one do we use, right?
You didn't anticipate the new platform.
If there's a generic one in there,
though, we can use that.
So, all right,
let's actually look at how this
gets done in Project Builder.
Now, what
Slightly modified version of
the SimpleText project that
ships as an example on OS X.
And when I say slightly modified,
what I've done is I've made
SimpleText localizable already.
So SimpleText wasn't quite
fully set up to be localizable,
but I've tweaked it around a little,
so it is.
We can see all the .R files
that are in the project.
These are the things that are going to
go through REST and build the resource
manager resources that SimpleTax needs.
Now, first let's go ahead and build this.
While that's building,
maybe I'll point out that I've
also sort of broken up the .R
files a little further than they
are in the default simple text.
I've actually taken out and put in
a separate file all of the stuff.
[Transcript missing]
All the R files were merged together and
put into one .rsrc file in the data fork.
All right,
let's prove that this actually works.
So here's simple text.
I can bring up the Find panel
and so on and so forth.
OK, fine.
SimpleText has a bug, yes.
Now, OK, so I have this application
now that's localizable,
but it's not localized, right?
How do I localize it?
Well, these are the files, again,
that need to be localized.
This one, the global stuff file,
this one does not need to be localized.
But this one, these all do.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go to the project inspector.
The inspector can act
on multiple selections,
so you can do all this stuff in a batch.
And there's this localization
and platforms pull-down menu.
And all you really
have to do here is say,
"Okay,
I'd like all these to be localized,
please." You'll notice that they
all got disclosure triangles.
And what that shows, if you disclose it,
it shows a list of all of the
different variants that we have
for this localized resource.
And so when we first make it localized,
we just get English,
which is the development
region for this project.
And that's what we start out with.
But the whole point here is we
want to actually localize it.
So once we've made these
localizable resources,
we can go ahead and add a new variant.
So let's say add one for French.
You'll notice that for
the ones I disclosed,
it added the French version here.
Initially,
when you add a new region variant,
it starts out as a copy
of the development region.
So if I open up this file,
which actually seems to
contain a lot of the strings,
we'll see that the
French version is in English,
right?
Because it just copied the English file.
I'm not going to make you
sit here and watch me,
my poor command of French here.
I actually had a colleague
localize this one for me,
and I have this little cheater file.
We'll go ahead and just copy the
contents out of there and go back
to the French version of localize.r,
and we'll just replace it.
Save that.
Now we have this version,
which if I go up to part
that actually was localized,
you can see it has been
localized into French.
Let's build that.
Now, it didn't build any of the code
because we already built that.
Now, if you notice though,
now it's running res on some of these
files and it's putting them into the
localized.rsrc of the English.lproj.
It's doing some more of
them for the French.lproj,
right, because we have French versions
for everything now.
And then finally,
it's doing the global one for
the one that we didn't localize.
Okay.
And now we can run.
Hopefully it will still come
up in English because I haven't
changed my language preference.
Ooh.
You know what, though?
I forgot to change my preference
back to English after the first demo.
So, all right, well,
here it is in French.
All right,
let's do this in the right order, though.
All right, so.
We can run this and
it'll come up in English.
Actually, you'll notice that before I had
left the preference order Japanese,
French, English, right?
We hadn't localized it into Japanese,
but we had localized it into French,
so it showed up in French,
even though I would have preferred
Japanese if there had been one.
Okay.
So here it is in English, right?
We still have the find panel.
Okay, fine.
But if we go back here and we say, OK,
well, let's make that French instead
and run it again.
Okay, here it comes in French.
And you'll see that in this case,
just doing the strings isn't
going to quite be enough.
We'll probably have to go in and
tweak some of the DITL resources
to change some of the control sizes
when we want to make this actually
fully localized into French.
But you get the idea, right?
So that's as easy, you know,
as it is to actually support
this stuff in Project Builder.
And that is the end of that demo.
So that pretty much
concludes the content here.
All of my pointers point backwards.
All of these sessions
have already taken place.
If you saw them, good for you.
If you didn't, well, OK.
Maybe some of these slides or even
the video for these presentations
will be available at some point.
And if they are,
you might take a peek at some of them.
Core Foundation is a wonderful technology
for dealing with these localization
issues as well as a lot of other stuff.
So definitely check out the
Core Foundation stuff if you want
to learn about Project Builder.
There's the Project Builder sessions.
There's the application packaging
and document typing talk that Arnaud
gave earlier this afternoon that
deals with other bundle issues.
There's the
Apple Localization Tools talk,
which was in this room
right before this talk.
And then the one that isn't already over,
there's the Texan International Feedback
session tomorrow morning.
Tim Holmes is the one to
contact about this technology.
His email address is there.
And now I'll invite a
few people to come up.
Hopefully they showed up for Q&A.